Israel radio said the 18-member Cabinet debate on the Wye River accord would resume only after Yasser Arafat's Palestinian Authority fulfilled all of its commitments under the agreement, including arresting Islamic militants.
The Cabinet also insisted that Arafat convene the Palestinian National Council, a parliament in exile, to abrogate the Palestinian National Charter, which calls for Israel's destruction.
there has been relentless terrorist attacks against Israeli citizens,'' according to a Cabinet statement read on the radio.
APW19981106.
0274 A car rigged with explosives blew up Friday morning in Jerusalem's Mahane Yehuda market packed with Israelis shopping for the Jewish Sabbath, killing two people and wounding 21.
The Islamic militant group Hamas, which has tried to stop the peace agreement, claimed responsibility, police said.
In response to the attack, the Israeli cabinet suspended ratification of the Wye agreement until there ``is verification that the Palestinian authority is indeed fighting terrorism.
Aides to Netanyahu were not immediately available for comment.
One young woman shopper said: ``We can't stop with what we are doing when this happens.
A burly policeman bent to cover a bloodied corpse with whatever was at hand _ a sodden piece of cardboard, a plastic shopping bag.
Two people were killed and at least 21 injured when an explosives-rigged car blew up Friday at Jerusalem's Mahane Yehuda market, only meters (yards) from the site of a suicide bombing 16 months ago.
APW19981106.
The decision came less than three hours after a car rigged with explosives blew up in an outdoor market in downtown Jersualem.
Two people were killed and 21 others were wounded in the attack for which the Islamic militant group Hamas claimed responsibility.
The Cabinet said it would not resume its debate or hold a vote on the accord until the Palestinian Authority has taken steps against terrorism.
APW19981107.
'' The leaflet could not immediately be authenticated, but its style was consistent with that of past communications from the group.
An Islamic Jihad official in the Syrian capital of Damascus confirmed that the group's leader Ramadan Abdullah Shallah claimed responsibility for Friday's bombing in an interview with the Paris-based Radio Monte Carlo.
At least half a dozen other Islamic activists have been rounded up since the bombing, the sources said.
APW19981107.
Groundbreaking at the site led to angry Palestinian protests and a breakdown of peace talks in March 1997.
S.
Secretary of State Madeleine Albright expects Israel's Cabinet to ratify the new peace accord within a few days despite the market bombing, a television report said Saturday.
``The United States understands the delay by a day or two but expects the agreement to be approved soon,'' Albright told Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu by phone, Channel Two reported.
``We refuse any political agreement that would recognize the Zionist enemy.
'' An Islamic Jihad official in the Syrian capital of Damascus confirmed that the group's leader Ramadan Abdullah Shallah claimed responsibility for Friday's bombing in an interview with the Paris-based Radio Monte Carlo.
At least half a dozen other Islamic activists have been rounded up since the bombing, the sources said.
Palestinian political leaders said Israel should not use Friday's suicide bombing, which killed the two assailants and wounded 21 Israelis, as an excuse to stop the peace process.
One of Israel's key demands is that the Palestinians do more to fight attacks by Islamic militants against Israeli targets.
The Palestinians, however, said the two bombers had come from Israeli-controlled areas and that Israel thus bore at least part of the security responsibility for the attack.
A ring of young men wearing skullcaps joined hands and danced, and rabbis spoke of the ``miracle'' that had saved those shopping in the market at the time of the attack.
APW19981107.
``We will build also in Har Homa as we will build in every part of Jerusalem,'' Netanyahu told a crowd of political supporters in Jerusalem, ``By 2000 there will be homes at Har Homa.
Groundbreaking at the site led to angry Palestinian protests and a breakdown of peace talks in March 1997.
S.
Secretary of State Madeleine Albright told Netanyahu by phone that she expects Israel's Cabinet to ratify the new peace accord within a few days despite the market bombing, Channel Two television reported Saturday.
``We refuse any political agreement that would recognize the Zionist enemy.
'' An Islamic Jihad official in the Syrian capital of Damascus confirmed that the group's leader Ramadan Abdullah Shallah claimed responsibility for Friday's bombing in an interview with the Paris-based Radio Monte Carlo.
At least half a dozen other Islamic activists have been rounded up since the bombing, the sources said.
Palestinian political leaders said Israel should not use Friday's suicide bombing, which killed the two assailants and wounded 21 Israelis, as an excuse to stop the peace process.
One of Israel's key demands is that the Palestinians do more to fight attacks by Islamic militants against Israeli targets.
The Palestinians, however, said the two bombers had come from Israeli-controlled areas and that Israel thus bore at least part of the security responsibility for the attack.
A ring of young men wearing skullcaps joined hands and danced, and rabbis spoke of the ``miracle'' that had saved those shopping in the market at the time of the attack.
APW19981108.
23 in Washington, was to have begun this past week, but has hit various snags.
The radical group Islamic Jihad claimed responsibility.
David Bar-Illan, a top aide to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, said Sunday that Israel expects Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat to formally outlaw the military wings of Islamic Jihad and the larger militant group Hamas.
'' he asked.
The Wye memorandum states that the Palestinian Authority ``will inform the United States fully of the actions it has taken to outlaw all organizations (or wings of organizations, as appropriate) of a military, terrorist or violent character, and their support structure and to prevent them freedom of action in the areas under its jurisdiction.
Participants included the head of the Palestinian intelligence, Amin Hindi, and the head of preventive security in the Gaza Strip, Mohammed Dahlan.
The idea of outlawing Hamas and Islamic Jihad was brought up in the meeting and also proposed by Netanyahu to Arafat during a phone call, the official said.
Israel said it showed Arafat's crackdown on terrorists had not been sweeping enough.
The Palestinians, however, have also accused Israel of failing to take at least partial security responsibility for the attack, because both attackers came from Israeli-controlled areas, and had recently served time in Israeli jails.
Israel as a rule is harshly critical of the Palestinian Authority's security efforts when attackers come from Palestinian-controlled areas or have been released from Palestinian prisons.
.
Israeli Defense Minister Yitzhak Mordechai predicted Sunday that the Israeli Cabinet would ratify the agreement in coming days.
``I estimate that the government will meet this week and will accept the decision of the majority (in favor of the agreement),'' he said.
NYT19981107.
0251 The militant Palestinian movement Islamic Holy War said Saturday that it carried out the suicide bombing in a Jerusalem market on Friday, which prompted arrests by the Palestinian Authority overnight.
The two bombers who carried out Friday's attack, which led the Israeli Cabinet to suspend deliberations on the land-for-security accord signed with the Palestinians last month, were identified as members of Islamic Holy War from West Bank villages under Israeli security control.
Ramadan Abdallah Shallah, the Damascus-based leader of Islamic Holy War, said ``martyrs'' from his movement had carried out the Jerusalem attack in response to Israel's settlement policy and ``Judaization'' of the West Bank.
He spoke in an interview with Monte Carlo Radio, an Arabic station broadcasting from Paris that is widely listened to in the Middle East.
A leaflet signed by the group and faxed to Reuters in Jerusalem said the ``heroic attack,'' in which 24 people were injured and the 2 bombers killed, had been carried out ``to confront the great conspiracy that aims to liquidate the Palestinian cause through the Oslo and Wye Plantation agreements of submission.
Shallah's claim of responsibility from abroad contrasted with the muted response of Islamic Holy War's leadership in the Gaza Strip, which has reportedly given commitments to the Palestinian Authority to refrain from such attacks.
``From its conditions we consider it likely that it was an individual effort.
'' The Palestinian cabinet, in a statement issued after a meeting on Friday night, accused ``foreign forces'' of standing behind the attack.
One cabinet member, who declined to be identified, pointed a finger at Iran, saying a search of one bomber's home had uncovered a letter he had written to the Iranian supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, expressing condolences for the recent killing of several Iranian diplomats in Afghanistan.
Iran, which has backed militant Islamic groups opposed to the Arab-Israeli peace efforts, has denounced the Wye agreement, branding Yasser Arafat, the Palestinian leader, a traitor to the Palestinian cause.
The Palestinian cabinet promised to crack down on the militants, who it said were jeopardizing the recovery of Palestinian land and hopes for statehood by giving Israel a pretext to postpone carrying out the Wye accord.
The Israeli Cabinet suspended a meeting to ratify the agreement after the bombing, demanding that the Palestinians conduct an ``all-out war on terror.
The Wye agreement calls for an Israeli troop withdrawal from 13 percent more of the West Bank in exchange for specific Palestinian measures against violent militants.
A Palestinian security official said several Islamic Holy War members were arrested in the West Bank on Friday night.
``We condemn such acts, but the only thing we can do now is to say may he rest in peace.
I'm going to Paradise.
