Mamdouh Mahmud Salim, 40, of Sudan, has been jailed since his arrest near Munich on Sept.
Zierl declined to comment on the report, but said U.
S.
And that excuse is Osama bin Laden, the man Washington calls Enemy No.
1 and blames for the Aug.
On Aug.
According to U.
``America is looking for an excuse to fire more rockets on our dear Afghanistan and that excuse is bin Laden,'' Saqib said.
Washington, which has posted a dlrs 5 million reward for bin Laden's arrest, hasn't ruled out further attacks on Afghanistan.
Saqib, who heads a judicial inquiry established by the Taliban to investigate the terrorism charges against bin Laden, says the United States has become insecure.
``America fears its shadow .
.
in every part of the world it is afraid and sees every danger connected to bin Laden,'' he said in an interview in the Afghan capital of Kabul.
They cite Afghan tradition, which demands the host guarantee his guest protection.
So far Saqib says he has no evidence of bin Laden's involvement in terrorist activities.
Saqib said his inquiry will wind up on Nov.
official said Thursday.
Wadih El Hage, Mohamed Sadeek Odeh and Mohamed Rashed Daoud Al-'Owhali are being held by the U.
District Court in the Southern District of New York.
All three have pleaded innocent.
S.
Bin Laden is believed to be living in Afghanistan.
APW19981119.
Men must grow beards of a certain length and criminals are subjected to amputations and public executions Even though Bangladesh is a predominantly Muslim country, it is governed by secular laws.
Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina's liberal government hasn't recognized the Taliban government in Afghanistan.
APW19981120.
0887 The man accused of orchestrating the U.
embassy bombings in Tanzania and Kenya was declared a free man Friday in Afghanistan, where he has lived for years with the permission of the hard-line Islamic Taliban militia.
``Without any evidence, bin Laden is a man without sin.
.
.
The minister, Amir Khan Muttaqi, also disputed U.
S.
APW19981129.
He said he believed terrorists had already infiltrated other parts of Europe from bases in Albania through a traffic in illegal immigrants, who have been smuggled across the Mediterranean to Italy in huge numbers.
NYT19981003.
0093 The United States has obtained new evidence to link the owner of a Sudanese factory destroyed in a U.
S.
embassies in East Africa, according to U.
S.
S.
A spokesman for Idris denied the accusations, saying Idris had no ties either to bin Laden or to any Islamic terrorist groups.
I have never met Mr.
bin Laden, I have never spoken with him, I have never had any financial or business relationship with him, nor knowingly with anyone acting as his agent.
But intelligence agents previously obtained evidence that the manager of the Shifa plant made frequent trips to Iraq, where he visited the head of the chemical weapons program.
In addition, a soil sample that the CIA clandestinely took at the Shifa plant showed the presence of a chemical used in the production of VX nerve gas, a process used only by Iraq.
The criticism is also based on the suspicion that the United States has poor data on Sudan, as the CIA station there has been closed since 1995 and the entire U.
intelligence official.
in his effort to use Sudan as a base for chemical weapons production, and talked to Sudanese leaders about testing poisonous gases against U.
S.
S.
intelligence.
S.
0410 One of the clear but unstated objectives of last August's raid on Afghanistan was to kill Osama bin Laden and as many of his lieutenants as possible, administration officials now acknowledge.
and international law.
A 1976 executive order bars anyone working for the U.
A top U.
20 strike, the objective was to disrupt the training, organization and infrastructure of the bin Laden terrorist network at the Khost camps,'' said David C.
Leavy, a spokesman for the National Security Council at the White House.
Targeting infrastructure, officials acknowledged, can also mean destroying the leadership of a terrorist group.
``Command and control of an enemy is a justifiable target,'' Leavy said.
Administration officials have denied since August that the raid was intended to kill bin Laden, a Saudi exile who has been charged by federal prosecutors with leading a global war against U.
7 bombing of two U.
'' Kenneth Bacon, the Pentagon spokesman, said the secretary had not retracted his statements.
The Los Angeles Times recently reported that the administration believed that it had a legal right to use deadly force against terrorist leaders.
embassies in East Africa.
S.
soldiers in Germany with a bombing raid on Libya.
forces used powerful bombs in an attempt to kill Saddam Hussein, the president of Iraq.
The legal review conducted by the White House would appear to provide a precedent for future operations in similar circumstances.
The letter, an extraordinary bit of digital evidence in a cloak-and-dagger case, was retrieved from a computer in a house where Fazil had been staying, according to papers filed in U.
Officials of the FBI and the U.
S.
attorney's office in New York City refused to say Tuesday night at what point FBI agents learned of the computer file, nor would they make any other comment.
He remains a fugitive.
The dispatch provides a remarkable insight into the workings of a terrorist network in the twilight of the 20th century.
The author talks of how he and his fellow operatives follow events on CNN and use the Internet to communicate.
Along the way, in an almost casual fashion, the document seems to confirm two of the central charges of the federal case against bin Laden: That he had planted a terrorist cell in Nairobi and that his operatives carried out another of the crimes laid at bin Laden's door by federal authorities _ the attacks on American soldiers in Somalia in 1993 and 1994.
The writer of the document warned that the followers of bin Laden, whom he referred to as ``the sheik,'' had ``become America's primary target.
'' He said his comrades in East Africa ``should know that there is an American-Kenyan-Egyptian intelligence activity in Nairobi aiming to identify the names and residences of the members who are associated with the sheik since America knows well that the youth who lived in Somalia and were members of the sheik's cell are the ones who killed Americans in Somalia.
A translation of the report was part of a package of documents American prosecutors have sent to Britain to support the extradition of Fawwaz for trial in New York.
A second count charges him with soliciting others to do so.
Keep in mind we only have $500.
``There is a war and the situation is dangerous,'' he said.
According to federal authorities, Fazil went on to play a pivotal role in the bombing of the Nairobi embassy.
'' He said that the group did not have to inform its Nairobi-based operatives of all its global plans, but they needed enough warning to go ``underground for a while'' if authorities intensified the pressure in Nairobi.
0428 If Osama bin Laden ever stands trial in New York for the bombings of the U.
S.
investigators for two years.
The government has identified the aide in court papers with the pseudonym CS-1, saying the person pleaded guilty to terrorism charges in a secret proceeding in U.
S.
soldiers in Somalia and elsewhere.
They have cited the source in the papers filed to support the extradition of two associates of bin Laden who are under arrest in Germany and Britain.
soldiers in Somalia and that he attempted to obtain nuclear weapons.
It is not known whether the source is in custody somewhere, or hiding under government protection.
As recently as 11 days ago, records show, the source swore to a 5-page affidavit before a New York notary summarizing his allegations against bin Laden.
The news of Tayyib's possible defection, the East African operative wrote in a report apparently intended for the group's commanders, ``almost made me explode.
``An important man with close links to'' bin Laden ``seems to have fallen into the enemy's hands, and we have to take all the appropriate security precautions against that,'' the operative, Haroun Fazil, wrote in his summary of security concerns.
S.
S.
prosecutors have charged at least six members of bin Laden's organization with terrorist activities or conspiracy.
In the affidavit prepared last week, the source acknowledged pleading guilty to terrorism charges in the United States and said they stemmed from attacks on U.
