Asia-Pacific leaders are scheduled to meet next month in Malaysia for an annual economics meeting.
Last week, Philippine President Joseph Estrada said he was considering not going to the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum because of Anwar Ibrahim's arrest.
``I'm very concerned over how my friend Anwar Ibrahim has been treated,'' Habibie was quoted as saying by the English-language newspaper The Nation.
But he was suddenly fired by Mahathir on Sept.
``Because of human rights involved _ and I think it is universal _ people should be given the chance to defend themselves,'' Habibie was quoted as saying in the interview conducted Saturday.
APW19981006.
Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad, 72, said last week he could ``drop dead'' at any time.
But because of the large number of candidates for the deputy's job within the ruling United Malays National Organization, a decision was not expected quickly.
2, will also confer on what to do now that the High Court judge has banned all comments on Anwar's guilt or innocence.
Anwar was also dumped from the ruling party, and after two weeks of nationwide rallies at which he called for government reform and Mahathir's resignation, he was arrested under a law that allows police to hold him indefinitely, and prevent him from seeing his family and lawyers.
On Tuesday, Mahathir denounced demonstrators who had flocked by the thousands to the streets of downtown Kuala Lumpur in recent weeks, calling them part of a plot to topple the government.
The United States would downgrade President Bill Clinton's visit to Kuala Lumpur next month if Anwar continued to be mistreated, the Wall Street Journal quoted an official in Washington as saying.
Clinton is scheduled to go to Malaysia for the meeting of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum.
Wearing a neck brace Monday after a court-ordered hospital checkup, Anwar was ordered to stand trial Nov.
Rafidah Aziz, the international trade and industry minister, and Tengku Razaleigh Hamzah, a former finance minister, were also in the running.
Both presidents have hinted they might not attend the meeting of the 18 Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation nations next month in the Malaysian capital out of concern for Anwar.
The former deputy prime minister and finance minister of Malaysia was arrested Sept.
20 on corruption and illegal sex charges, then brought to court with a black eye and bruises.
Estrada called Anwar his friend and said, ``I think all of us here believe that due process and human rights should be respected.
If Habibie passes up APEC, Alatas said, it will be because ``he has difficulty leaving the country while there is no vice president, while there are so many problems to deal with.
'' Habibie has already canceled a state visit to Malaysia, citing difficulties at home.
Ambassador Jose Brillantes said in a radio interview from Kuala Lumpur that he was called Thursday after the Malaysian dissident's eldest daughter met Philippine President Joseph Estrada.
``They expressed their concern about what's happening and the statements coming out of the Philippines,'' Brillantes told radio station DZXL in Manila.
He has also said Anwar should be held in house arrest during his upcoming trial on corruption and sexual misconduct charges.
Anwar has denied the charges, calling them politically motivated.
``We still consider, as expressed by our president, that APEC is important to us,'' he said.
2.
Canada, the host country, was criticized by some in Canada for cracking down on demonstrations against Suharto, Indonesia's iron-fisted ruler at the time.
My, how the challenges have grown, as the 21-nation Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum prepares for its November summit in Malaysia.
Japan _ the world's second largest economy, and Asia's financial anchor _ is suffering through its worst recession since World War II, and that bad news cost Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto his job.
Suharto, who ruled Indonesia for 32 years, was driven out of power by a violent, pro-democracy movement, and the world's fourth most populous country is in real trouble financially.
'' But even he is having major domestic problems.
Instead of stepping aside, Anwar launched a reform movement across Malaysia that quickly led to big rallies demanding that Mahathir step down.
The prime minister used riot police to thwart the protests, and jailed Anwar, charging him with corruption and sex crimes, and scheduling his trial for Nov.
2.
President B.
John S.
'' But he also said the leaders of the 21 APEC members should aim for a productive meeting.
``This has been a lousy year in general.
During the Malaysia meeting, APEC also will include three new members: Russia _ one of the latest victims of the financial crisis _ Vietnam and Peru.
APW19981023.
Lee decided to send Chiang Pin-kung to the informal leaders summit on Nov.
Presentation of an invitation to Lee by the host nation _ with the understanding that it will be politely refused _ is an annual formality that allows Taiwan to maintain a semblance of dignity and the host to avoid controversy with China.
China claims Taiwan as a breakaway province and argues that only sovereign nations are allowed to send their heads of state.
Russia, Vietnam and Peru will join in November.
Among the necessary steps is for countries to restructure their economies and corporations to make them less susceptible to abuse by narrow political interests, the officials suggested.
Many of Asia's economies have plunged into recession since that agreement.
The summit is to take place on Nov.
Stanley Fischer, deputy managing director of the International Monetary Fund, noted that some countries have already reformed their banking sectors.
Former Deputy Prime Minister Anwar Ibrahim, now on trial on charges of corruption and sexual misconduct, made the warning in an interview with Monday's edition of Time magazine.
Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad fired Anwar in September, saying he was morally unfit to lead, then had him expelled from Malaysia's ruling party.
Anwar denies the allegations and says they were fabricated because Mahathir considered his popularity a threat to the prime minister's 17-year rule.
APW19981109.
Pacific Rim leaders, including U.
Russia, Vietnam and Peru will also join APEC this year.
After meetings with Thai Cabinet members, including Prime Minister Chuan Leekpai, members of the U.
``We would be quick as observers to applaud the aggressiveness of the reform packages that we see being proposed in front of your government today,'' said business council chairman George David, who is also chairman and CEO of United Technologies Corp.
Thailand was hit hard by last year's Asian economic crisis, and the proposed economic reform legislation focuses on resolving the massive bad debt of private companies, which is hindering a recovery.
``This is very aggressive, good reform.
'' The U.
They could hardly be meeting in a more provocative place.
In doing so, the Malaysian prime minister, Mahathir Mohamad, in effect slammed the door on the global economy that President Clinton and the other leaders are coming here to champion.
Mahathir's decision drew jeers from international investors and policy- makers, who warned that Malaysia was seeking a quick fix that would retard its desperately needed reforms and leave it the odd man out when Asia finally recovered from the regional malaise.
Now, though, Mahathir's allies are marshaling new economic data that they say indicate that capital controls are breathing new life into the country's moribund economy.
Malaysia's foreign reserves rose strongly in September, and there is anecdotal evidence that consumers are starting to spend again.
``But we want to see whether this is strongly sustainable.
Because the country is sheltered from the vagaries of capital flows and currency fluctuations, they said, the government had been able to ease interest rates and encourage consumer spending.
Still, the mere fact that Malaysia's experiment has yielded some positive results guarantees that the issue will come up during the APEC meeting.
So far, Indonesian officials have said they would stick to the recovery plan devised by the International Monetary Fund, which stresses economic austerity and open markets.
But officials in Japan have expressed some sympathy for Mahathir's policies, while Paul Krugman, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, has advocated using them as an emergency measure.
In addition to growing foreign reserves, he said Malaysia had improved its trade balance and revived consumer purchases of durable goods.
30.
Anwar's sensational trial is a reminder that Mahathir's economic policies cannot be disentangled from politics.
Malaysia's 72-year-old prime minister clashed with his former protege over how to respond to the Asian crisis, and he dismissed Anwar the day after imposing capital controls.
During boom times, Mahathir won support for his policies by wrapping them in anti-foreigner language.
``Things will heat up if the economy does not improve,'' said Chandra Muzaffar, a professor of political science at the University of Malaya.
