After first suggesting that the former deputy prime minister had beaten himself on the face, neck and arms during 10 days in police custody, Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad called for an investigation of the wounds Anwar displayed in court Tuesday and Wednesday.
``We can't accept this and we will undertake full investigations,'' Mahathir was quoted as saying in Thursday's New Straits Times.
The two had differed over economic policy as the country veered into recession and Anwar has said the 72-year-old Mahathir feared him as an alternative leader.
Local newspapers that are normally pro-Mahathir have splashed close-up photos of Anwar's badly bruised face for two days.
It was not the first time that a Malaysian has said he was tortured or mistreated in police custody.
In a book about his six-month detention under the same law that kept Anwar away from family and lawyers for 10 days, Syed described being hit and deprived of sleep.
If Mahathir did not know of the alleged beatings, it suggests the police acted on their own.
His arrest Sept.
But police have banned her from speaking publicly.
21 interview with Azizah and one with Anwar on Sept.
His allegations, accompanied by pictorial evidence, brought prompt expressions of disapproval, from the U.
On Thursday, the Indonesian government, where security forces have been accused for years of mistreating prisoners, said it regretted the reports about Anwar's injuries and that the allegations have placed in doubt a visit to Malaysia by President B.
J.
The man need not necessarily be very religious and only preoccupied with doing virtuous deeds at all times, the national news agency, Bernama, quoted Mahathir as saying after Friday prayers at the Al-Falah Mosque in the northern town of Jitra in Kedah state.
``It is sufficient that the person does things acceptable by the people,'' Mahathir said.
Mahathir told reporters later that Anwar had been working toward toppling him as prime minister and president of the governing coalition's dominant party, the United Malays National Organization.
``He appeared very good to me but he was actually planning ways of bringing me down.
APW19981002.
``The EU urges the Malaysian authorities to ensure that similar incidents will not occur again in the future and that Anwar Ibrahim be assured correct treatment while in custody,'' a statement by the 15 EU countries said.
The EU ``hopes that appropriate action will be taken against any individuals, including officials, found responsible for such mistreatment,'' the statement added.
Mahathir and Anwar had differed over economic policy and Anwar says Mahathir feared him as an alternative leader.
Anwar mounted a nationwide campaign against the prime minister before being detained as a national security risk and charged with illegal homosexual acts and corruption in connection with those allegations.
Earlier this week, Anwar appeared in court with a black eye and bruises on his neck and arms.
The EU statement welcomed the opening of this investigation.
``The EU expresses hope that the other political demonstrators still detained under the Internal Security Act will also be released soon,'' the statement said.
The former deputy-premier, who was also finance minister, pleaded innocent this week to charges of sodomy and corruption.
A number of Anwar's associates are still detained.
'' Jailed, beaten and facing trial on 10 sexual misconduct and corruption charges, ousted Deputy Prime Minister Anwar Ibrahim is a political underdog in Malaysia.
In the realm of cyberspace, though, he's top dog.
Among the hottest images now making the Internet rounds are several news-photo versions of Anwar's badly bruised eye, which he claims was inflicted by police during his first night of detention.
Most pro-Anwar sites also contain his speeches, private letters to Mahathir, clippings of foreign news reports and prose scorching the 72-year old prime minister.
Most of the Internet content about Anwar is false or unverifiable, but the medium is tough to rein in, said Azzman Shariffadeen, head of Mimos, the company that set up Malaysia's Internet infrastructure.
``No website has been blocked or censored by the government,'' he said.
Malaysian journalist M.
The cyber explosion is a boon to most middle-class Malaysians, who are leery of local media.
20.
Asia-Pacific leaders are scheduled to meet next month in Malaysia for an annual economics meeting.
``I'm very concerned over how my friend Anwar Ibrahim has been treated,'' Habibie was quoted as saying by the English-language newspaper The Nation.
``I'm concerned because people should not forget that Anwar Ibrahim had contributed a lot for the benefit of his country.
But he was suddenly fired by Mahathir on Sept.
In a court appearance last week, Anwar's face was bruised and he said he had been beaten by police, heightening international attention to his case.
``Because of human rights involved _ and I think it is universal _ people should be given the chance to defend themselves,'' Habibie was quoted as saying in the interview conducted Saturday.
APW19981005.
Munawar Ahmad Aness, a friend and speech writer of Anwar Ibrahim, pleaded guilty to the charges last month, allegedly confessing to having sex with the political dissident.
Anwar has said the guilty plea was coerced.
Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad, 72, said last week he could ``drop dead'' at any time.
But because of the large number of candidates for the deputy's job within the ruling United Malays National Organization, a decision was not expected quickly.
2, will also confer on what to do now that the High Court judge has banned all comments on Anwar's guilt or innocence.
The two had differed over economic policy and Anwar has said Mahathir feared he was a threat to his 17-year rule.
Anwar was also dumped from the ruling party, and after two weeks of nationwide rallies at which he called for government reform and Mahathir's resignation, he was arrested under a law that allows police to hold him indefinitely, and prevent him from seeing his family and lawyers.
On Tuesday, Mahathir denounced demonstrators who had flocked by the thousands to the streets of downtown Kuala Lumpur in recent weeks, calling them part of a plot to topple the government.
Baton-wielding riot police had dispersed the crowds with tear gas and water cannons, arresting more than 100 people.
He was expected to return to Kuala Lumpur later Tuesday to chair the UMNO meeting.
The United States would downgrade President Bill Clinton's visit to Kuala Lumpur next month if Anwar continued to be mistreated, the Wall Street Journal quoted an official in Washington as saying.
Clinton is scheduled to go to Malaysia for the meeting of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum.
As of Tuesday, 12 had been released.
Rafidah Aziz, the international trade and industry minister, and Tengku Razaleigh Hamzah, a former finance minister, were also in the running.
Azizah Ismail, the wife of jailed politician Anwar Ibrahim, told reporters that the lawyers had filed a habeas corpus appeal that says the dissident politician is being unjustly held.
She said authorities have denied lawyers access to her husband, and asked: ``How are they going to prepare for his defense?
Anwar was sacked on Sept.
But the prime minister said the deputy was fired because he was morally unfit.
Anwar said Mahathir viewed him as a threat.
2.
He said the lawyers had asked the High Court for an early hearing on the request for Anwar's release.
When Anwar appeared in court Monday, the judge had assured defense attorneys that they would have access to their client so that they could prepare their arguments for the trial.
``I pleaded with the police to allow the children to see their father,'' she told reporters at the courthouse.
Sidek Baba, deputy rector of the International Islamic University, was released Wednesday after 16 days in jail.
4 million in a nation of 22 million.
The absence of a successor could lead to a power struggle in the event Mahathir is forced to resign or dies, because there is no clear line of succession.
Anwar was fired by Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad on Sept.
2 after the two differed on economic policy.
.
.
.
They even die,'' she told a news conference in Manila, where she attended a meeting of Association of Southeast Asian Nations economic ministers.
In recent appearances in court, where he is facing charges of corruption and illegal homosexual acts, he was seen with a black eye and a neck brace.
The Philippine leader said he was considering skipping a summit of Asia-Pacific leaders in Malaysia in November to protest the arrest of Anwar, whom he described as a personal friend.
The Philippines, Malaysia and Indonesia are founding member countries of ASEAN, which also includes Brunei, Laos, Myanmar, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam.
He drove Malaysians to be more productive, to embrace high technology and to begin major investments around the world.
He created a national affirmative-action program that allowed the country's ethnic Chinese, Malays and Indians to share in improved living standards and a new sense of Malaysian identity and pride.
It is a move that seems in tune with a recent round of questioning of the economic orthodoxy of the International Monetary Fund.
But few foreign economists expect it to work for long.
Many people were beaten and hundreds were detained, although most were later released.
