President Carlos Flores Facusse declared a state of maximum alert and the Honduran military sent planes to pluck residents from their homes on islands near the coast.
At 0900 GMT Tuesday, Mitch was 95 miles (152 kilometers) north of Honduras, near the Swan Islands.
With winds near 180 mph (289 kph), and even higher gusts, it was a Category 5 monster _ the highest, most dangerous rating for a storm.
``And God help us.
The U.
'' The entire coast of Honduras was under a hurricane warning and up to 15 inches (38 centimeters) of rain was forecast in mountain areas.
The Honduran president closed schools and public offices on the coast Monday and ordered all air force planes and helicopters to evacuate people from the Islas de la Bahia, a string of small islands off the country's central coast.
The head of the Honduran armed forces, Gen.
``For that humanitarian work, we would need more than 300 Hercules C-137 planes,'' he said.
Panic buying stripped bread from the shelves of some stores and some gasoline stations ran dry.
Jerry Jarrell, the weather center director, said Mitch was the strongest hurricane to strike the Caribbean since 1988, when Gilbert killed more than 300 people.
In La Ceiba, on Honduras' northern coast, people stood in long lines at filling stations Monday to buy gasoline under a steady rain.
Maria Gonzalez said she needed the gas to cook with when her firewood gets wet.
``Frightened people are moving into the mountains to search for shelter,'' he said.
Before bearing down on Honduras, Mitch swept past Jamaica and the Cayman Islands.
APW19981028.
Mitch was drifting west at only 2 mph (3 kph) over the Bay Islands, Honduras' most popular tourist area.
It also was only 30 miles (50 kms) off the coast, and hurricane-force winds stretched outward 105 miles (165 kms); tropical storm-force winds 175 miles (280 kms).
``Few houses have remained standing.
At least 32 people were killed and widespread flooding prompted more than 150,000 to seek higher ground.
It also kicked up huge waves that pounded seaside communities.
Hurricane-force winds whirled up to 30 miles (50 kilometers) from the center, with rain-laden tropical storm winds extending well beyond that.
``The hurricane has destroyed almost everything,'' said Mike Brown, a resident of Guanaja Island, 20 miles (32 kilometers) off the coast.
``Few houses have remained standing.
More than 72,000 people had been evacuated to shelters.
An American was thrown from his boat south of Cancun, Mexico, on Monday and was presumed dead.
Agriculture Minister Pedro Arturo Sevilla said crucial grain, citrus and banana crops had been damaged ``and the economic future of Honduras is uncertain.
About 10,000 residents fled to crowded shelters in schools, churches and firehouses.
More than 20,000 tourists had abandoned Cancun and nearby resort areas, leaving hotels at about 20 percent of capacity.
At its peak, Mitch was the fourth-strongest Caribbean hurricane in this century, behind Gilbert in 1988, Allen in 1980 and the Labor Day hurricane of 1935.
Mitch _ once, 2nd graf pvs APW19981101.
El Salvador _ where 140 people died in flash floods _ declared a state of emergency Saturday, as did Guatemala, where 21 people died when floods swept away their homes.
Mexico reported one death from Mitch last Monday.
Mitch was moving west at 8 mph (13 kph) and was dissipating but threatened to strengthen again if it moved back out to sea.
88 square-kilometer) area below the slopes of the Casita volcano in northern Nicaragua.
EU spokesman Pietro Petrucci said the funds will be used to provide basic care such as medicine, food, water sanitation and blankets to thousands of people whose homes were destroyed by torrential rains and mudslides.
The aid will be distributed in Nicaragua, El Salvador, Honduras and Guatemala which have most suffered from Mitch's deadly passage, the EU executive Commission said in a statement.
Officials in Central America estimated Tuesday that about 7,000 people have died in the region.
The greatest losses were reported in Honduras, where an estimated 5,000 people died and 600,000 people _ 10 percent of the population _ were forced to flee their homes after last week's storm.
El Salvador's National Emergency Committee listed 174 dead, 96 missing and 27,000 homeless.
Speaking during his general audience, the pope urged ``all public and private institutions and all men of good will'' to do all they can ``in this grave moment of destruction and death.
Among those attending the audience were six Russian cosmonauts taking a special course in Italy.
President Carlos Flores declared Hurricane Mitch had set back Honduras' development by 50 years.
He urged the more than 1.
The numbers of missing dropped from an estimated 11,000 to 4,621, Government Minister Delmer Urbizo said.
Six people died in southern Mexico and seven in Costa Rica.
In Washington on Thursday, President Bill Clinton ordered dlrs 30 million in Defense Department equipment and services and dlrs 36 million in food, fuel and other aid be sent to Honduras, Nicaragua, El Salvador and Guatemala.
The White House also said Clinton was dispatching Tipper Gore, wife of Vice President Al Gore, to Central America on a mission to show the U.
S.
The weakened storm crossed southern Florida on Thursday, damaging mobile homes and buildings and injuring at least seven people.
``Our problem is that all of the country has been affected,'' he said.
The United States committed 19 Blackhawk and Chinook helicopters, two C-27 aircraft and one C-130 cargo plane.
It also was pulling food from warehouses at its base in Rome, probably for delivery by emergency relief flights, spokesman Trevor Rowe said.
Searches for the missing continued, and some decomposed bodies, once found, were being buried in common graves.
Dozens of homes were swept into the river.
``We have to vaccinate the children,'' said Dr.
Foreign aid and pledges of assistance poured into Central America, but damage to roads and bridges reduced the amount of supplies reaching hundreds of isolated communities to a trickle: only as much as could be dropped from a helicopter, when the aircraft can get through.
In the Aguan River Valley in northern Honduras, floodwaters have receded, leaving a carpet of mud over hundreds of acres (hectares).
Former U.
First lady Hillary Rodham Clinton added Nicaragua and Honduras to a trip she plans to the region beginning Nov.
The four countries are among a dwindling number of nations that recognize Taiwan, which China claims is a breakaway province.
``It's a coincidence that the ships are there but they've got men and equipment that can be put to work in an organized way,'' said International Development Secretary Clare Short.
Nicaraguan leaders previously had refused Cuba's offer of medical help, saying it did not have the means to transport or support the doctors.
