Government and opposition parties have asked King Norodom Sihanouk to host a summit meeting after a series of post-election negotiations between the two opposition groups and Hun Sen's party to form a new government failed.
Opposition leaders Prince Norodom Ranariddh and Sam Rainsy, citing Hun Sen's threats to arrest opposition figures after two alleged attempts on his life, said they could not negotiate freely in Cambodia and called for talks at Sihanouk's residence in Beijing.
Hun Sen, however, rejected that.
Ranariddh and Sam Rainsy have charged that Hun Sen's victory in the elections was achieved through widespread fraud.
They have demanded a thorough investigation into their election complaints as a precondition for their cooperation in getting the national assembly moving and a new government formed.
'' Both Ranariddh and Sam Rainsy have been outside the country since parliament was ceremonially opened on Sep.
7.
``A meeting outside Cambodia, as suggested by the opposition, could place all parties on more equal footing,'' said the statement.
Cambodian leader Hun Sen's ruling party and the two-party opposition had called on the monarch to lead top-level talks, but disagreed on its location.
``Papa will not preside over any summit meeting between the three parties, whether it is held in Phnom Penh or Beijing, because such a meeting will certainly achieve no result,'' Sihanouk wrote in an Oct.
``Only those who want to prolong the anarchy and instability prevent efforts to set up a new government,'' Hun Sen said in a televised speech marking the anniversary of the 1991 Paris Peace Accords.
Hun Sen's party won 64 of the 122 seats in parliament in July's national election, but not the two-thirds majority necessary to form a government on its own.
Opposition parties led by Ranariddh and former finance minister Sam Ram Rainsy have refused to enter into a coalition with Hun Sen until their allegations of election fraud have been thoroughly investigated.
International monitors said the election was relatively free and fair.
Ranariddh and Sam Rainsy have remained outside the country since the Sept.
Hun Sen has rejected the opposition's reservations, saying it would be inappropriate to hold a summit outside the country.
Hun Sen complained Monday that the opposition was trying to make its members' return an international issue.
Meanwhile, it says, the old government is holding power illegally.
``There have been reports that there is an attempt to internationalize the return of those members of parliament on the excuse of security problems,'' Prak Sokhonn said.
Diplomatic efforts to revive the stalled talks appeared to bear fruit Monday as Japanese Foreign Affairs Secretary of State Nobutaka Machimura said King Norodom Sihanouk has called on Ranariddh and Sam Rainsy to return to Cambodia.
Less than two weeks after abandoning hope that he could influence the parties to reach a compromise, Sihanouk is now ``strongly interested'' in presiding over a summit meeting of the three party leaders in Cambodia, Machimura said.
APW19981027.
A copy of the resolution has since been submitted to the U.
It defended Hun Sen's ouster of Ranariddh as a proper response to the prince's attempts at the time to negotiate the defections of senior Khmer Rouge rebels.
It also repeated claims that the prince's party had moved rebel soldiers into Phnom Penh, a contention that remains unproved.
Ranariddh and his opposition ally, Sam Rainsy, refused to accept the election results, alleging widespread intimidation and fraud by the CPP.
When their claims were dismissed by a Hun Sen-friendly court, they rallied their supporters into the streets of Phnom Penh.
S.
Cambodian leader Hun Sen, who heads the CPP, has offered to share the legislature's top job with the royalist FUNCINPEC party of Prince Norodom Ranariddh in order to break the impasse.
The prince's party, in a statement dated Friday and seen Saturday, said such a scenario was unconstitutional.
``No party with seats at the National Assembly should be left out if transparency and a check and balance system is to be used in government,'' the statement said, adding that the Sam Rainsy Party should also be given chairmanship of one of the national assembly's nine commissions.
Noting that FUNCINPEC allowed the CPP to hold the presidency despite its win in the 1993 general elections, the statement said it was now its turn to take the post.
Fearing arrest, many opposition members of Parliament left Cambodia after the ceremonial opening of the National Assembly on Sep.
FUNCINPEC has demanded from Hun Sen written guarantees for the safety of its members and activities as a precondition for re-entering negotiations.
In a long-elusive compromise, opposition leader Prince Norodom Ranariddh will become president of the National Assembly resulting from disputed elections in July, even though Hun Sen's party holds a majority of 64 seats in the 122-member chamber.
Hun Sen's Cambodian People's Party dropped insistence on a joint assembly chairmanship shared by Ranariddh and party boss Chea Sim, the current speaker.
It was one of the main stumbling blocks in months of discord.
The two parties said that the assembly would convene again Nov.
Earlier, as both sides arrived at the Royal Palace for a second day of meetings, Sihanouk said they had agreed in principle to form a coalition and made ``important concessions.
All five were convicted of political crimes by courts that are widely seen as loyal to Hun Sen.
The opposition organized protests in Phnom Penh seeking Hun Sen's ouster that were violently dispersed.
Hun Sen and Ranariddh, co-prime ministers in a coalition formed in 1993 after a landmark U.
After a three-month impasse, they agreed last week to a coalition deal that will make Hun Sen sole prime minister and Ranariddh president of the National Assembly.
``This will not be a repetition of 1993 because there will not be two prime ministers,'' said Hun Sen aide Prak Sokhon, who attended last week's summit.
``When we had two prime ministers, everything moved very slowly and decisions were made more politically than technically.
In a letter to King Norodom Sihanouk released Monday, Sam Rainsy complained that Hun Sen had not responded to his queries on security, making it unsafe for his people to return for the reconvening of parliament.
Sam Rainsy said he had been told by Ranariddh that his party and former Khmer Rouge guerrillas had been implicated by Hun Sen in a rocket attack on the Sept.
24 opening of parliament.
The assurances were aimed especially at Sam Rainsy, leader of a vocally anti-Hun Sen opposition party, who was forced to take refuge in the U.
N.
In a letter to King Norodom Sihanouk _ the prince's father and Cambodia's head of state _ that was broadcast on television Tuesday, Hun Sen said that guarantees of safety extended to Ranariddh applied to all politicians.
His assurances come a week before the first session of Cambodia's new parliament, the National Assembly.
``It should be easy for them to say, `Rainsy and the SRP members of the assembly have no charges against them and will not be arrested,''' the opposition leader said in a statement.
Last week, Hun Sen's Cambodian People's Party and Ranariddh's FUNCINPEC party agreed to form a coalition that would leave Hun Sen as sole prime minister and make the prince president of the National Assembly.
The deal assures the two-thirds vote in parliament needed to approve a new government.
Sam Rainsy wrote in a letter to King Norodom Sihanouk that he was eager to attend the first session of the new National Assembly on Nov.
25, but complained that Hun Sen's assurances were not strong enough to ease concerns his party members may be arrested upon their return to Cambodia.
Hun Sen announced a government guarantee Wednesday of all politicians' safety and their right to conduct political activities ``in accordance with the laws in force.
'' Sam Rainsy, who earlier called Hun Sen's statement ``full of loopholes,'' asked Sihanouk for his help in obtaining a promise from Hun Sen that all members of the Sam Rainsy Party were free from prosecution for their political activities during and after last July's election.
Sam Rainsy, a staunch critic of Hun Sen, was forced to take refuge in a U.
The opposition, alleging widespread fraud and intimidation, refused to accept the results of the polls.
Ranariddh, whose FUNCINPEC party finished a close second in the election, returned last week and struck a deal with Hun Sen to form a coalition government.
The agreement will make Hun Sen prime minister and Ranariddh president of the National Assembly.
The two parties have formed three working groups to hammer out details of the agreement, including the establishment of a Senate to be the upper house of parliament.
The platform is said to emphasize administrative, economic and judicial reforms, but Sok An would not reveal details, saying Hun Sen would announce it when he presents his Cabinet choices to the National Assembly.
APW19981124.
In a short letter sent to news agencies, the king said he had received copies of cooperation agreements signed Monday that will place Hun Sen and his Cambodian People's Party in firm control of fiscal and administrative functions in the government.
``The protocol on cooperation between the CPP and FUNCINPEC will certainly bring peace and progress to our nation and people,'' Sihanouk wrote.
13 to form a government at a summit convened by Sihanouk.
Key to the agreement was the formation of a Senate as the upper house of Parliament, to be led by CPP President Chea Sim, the outgoing head of the National Assembly.
Other details of the Senate, including how much power it will be given in the promulgation of legislation, have yet to be ironed out by the two parties.
