The attack occurred overnight Wednesday in the village of Chiondo near Kasese, 270 kilometers (170 miles) west of the capital Kampala, said the spokesman, who identified himself only as Lt.
The anti-Kabila rebels claim the Ugandan rebel Lord's Resistance Army, which operates in northern Uganda and enjoys support from Sudan, is fighting alongside Kabila's forces together with Sudanese soldiers.
The government-owned daily New Vision reported Thursday that LRA leader Joseph Kony was badly wounded last week and is in hospital in Juba, the largest town still under government control in southern Sudan.
New Vision quoted Ugandan Minister of State for Security Muruli Mukasa as saying Kony's largest camp at al-Gabelain, 38 kilometers (24 miles) south of Juba, was destroyed last week when the SPLA took control.
Muruli said the LRA had been planning to bomb several sites in the Ugandan capital, including the Parliament building, state-run Radio Uganda, unidentified embassies and other public sites, the newspaper said.
The site _ www.
After an initial lightning advance in the far west of Africa's third-largest nation, the rebels were stopped at the outskirts of the capital, Kinshasa, by troops from Angola, Zimbabwe and Namibia, who are backing Kabila.
Since then, the rebels have been confined to a chunk of territory in the extreme eastern part of the country where their rebellion was declared Aug.
So far, Kabila has refused to negotiate with the rebels, accusing them of being the puppets of neighboring Rwanda and Uganda.
The site _ www.
After an initial lightning advance in the far west of Africa's third-largest nation, the rebels were stopped at the outskirts of the capital, Kinshasa, by troops from Angola, Zimbabwe and Namibia, who are backing Kabila.
Since then, the rebels have been confined to a chunk of territory in the extreme eastern part of the country where their rebellion was declared Aug.
So far, Kabila has refused to negotiate with the rebels, accusing them of being the puppets of neighboring Rwanda and Uganda.
Etienne Ngangura, a rebel spokesman, said the rebel fighters were inside Kindu and had taken the adjacent, large airbase, 380 kilometers (235 miles) west of Goma, the rebel stronghold.
``We're in the town and the airport,'' Ngangura said.
2 accusing Kabila of mismanagement, corruption and creating division among Congo's 400 tribes.
Troops moving south from Kisangani, the largest city under rebel control, and moving west, had made steady gains against Kindu, which the government apparently used to build up force for a planned counter-offensive.
Apart from Kindu, Ngangura said rebel fighters took Buta, 120 kilometers (75 miles) north of Kisangani and on the main road in northern Congo that links Sudan and the Central African Republic.
Also on Sunday, Ngangura said the rebels took Bumba, 400 kilometers (250 miles) northwest of Kisangani.
The rebels want direct negotiations with Kabila.
The conflict in Central Africa has drawn in most of Congo's nine neighbors, and regional diplomatic initiatives have so far failed to stop it.
After trekking several hundred kilometers (miles) through dense tropical forest, thousands of rebel fighters have gathered 19 kilometers (11 miles) outside Kindu, where troops loyal to President Laurent Kabila have used an air base as a launching pad for offensives.
If the rebels succeed in capturing Kindu, 380 kilometers (235 miles) west of Goma, the rebel headquarters, this will remove the last government stronghold in eastern Congo and pave the way for rebel advance into the mineral-rich southwest.
A rebel defeat, on the other hand, would put the coalition of ethnic Tutsis, disenchanted members of the Congolese army and opposition politicians on the defensive and give a boost to Kabila's efforts to fend off the rebellion launched Aug.
2.
Advance units had crossed the Lualaba River from the north and were meeting stiff resistance in the town, he said.
``Our soldiers are in the town and the fighting is continuing,'' rebel battalion commander Arthur Mulunda said in Kalima, 80 kilometers (50 miles) northeast of Kindu.
There was no independent confirmation of the rebel claims.
Mulunda's 1,500-strong battalion walked 240 kilometers (150 miles) Bukavu at the southern end of Lake Kivu to Kalima, which fell to the rebels Saturday with little resistance.
Rebels still control a string of towns in eastern Congo, including Kisangani, the country's third-largest city.
It was impossible to say who had the upper hand in the battle for Kindu and its air base, which government forces have been using to launch airstrikes on eastern towns and to assemble ground troops.
Rebel commander Richard Mondo said shelling and ground attacks, which began Monday, continued on Wednesday.
Sweaty and weary, some limping and others bandaged, they waited to be airlifted to a hospital in Goma, the rebel stronghold 380 kilometers (235 miles) east, on the Rwandan border.
In Kinshasa, the Ministry of Defense said Tuesday that the Congolese Armed Forces, known as the FAC, had killed 18 rebels in warding off the attacks.
``Kindu is effectively in the hands of the FAC, which has now launched an offensive after defending its positions,'' said a ministry statement broadcast on state-run television.
The rebel victory would also open routes to Katanga and Eastern Kasai provinces, rich in copper and diamonds.
Rebel commanders say their 2,000 fighters face an estimated 5,000 government troops, apparently reinforced by Sudanese soldiers.
Sudan denies involvement in Congo.
APW19981010.
A Congo Airlines executive said the victims were civilians being evacuated from Kindu, about 1,000 kilometers (620 miles) east of the capital, Kinshasa.
Neither claim could be confirmed independently.
Alexis Tambwe Mwamba, one of rebel leaders, said from the rebel stronghold at Goma, 380 kilometers (235 miles) northeast of Kalima, that fighters had intercepted government radio messages in Kindu and knew in advance of the arrival of the aircraft.
He said the government had been using the Boeing 727 to fly in troops and ammunition in Kindu for several days.
Fighting in Kindu, 32 kilometers (20 miles) northeast of the Elila River bridge, died down after the rebels fired a barrage of artillery into the government-held quarters and the air base, four kilometers (two miles) away.
Rebel commander Fino Kabangu Kalunga said the government forces, surrounded by 3,500 rebel troops from three directions, failed to respond to Sunday's attacks.
Some troops reportedly retreated through a single road corridor leading out of the town.
In Kinshasa, the private Congolese Airlines, which owned the aircraft, said the victims were civilians fleeing fighting in Kindu.
It was not possible to confirm independently either claim.
Kabila has turned Kindu into a launching pad for a counteroffensive against rebel positions in eastern Congo.
The conflict has drawn in many of Congo's neighbors.
Tanks, aircraft and troops from Angola, Zimbabwe and Namibia are supporting Kabila.
Fighting for the town of Kindu in this vast West African nation subsided after rebels launched an artillery barrage into government-held buildings and the airfield, two miles (three kilometers) away.
On Saturday, the rebels shot down a Congolese Boeing 727 over the Kindu airport.
It was not possible to confirm either claim independently.
Kabangu Kalunga said 3,500 rebel troops and their Rwandan allies had closed in on government forces from three directions after a week of fighting.
He said government troops did not launch a counterattack to Sunday's barrage, and some reportedly retreated on the one road leading out of town.
Early in the conflict, rebels pushed far into the west, to the outskirts of Congo's capital.
The conflict has drawn in many of Congo's neighbors.
Both countries say they have legitimate security interests in eastern Congo and accuse Kabila of failing to rid the common border area of Rwandan and Ugandan rebels.
APW19981013.
``Nobody is making money any more.
The war has split Africa's third-largest nation between the government-held west and south and rebel-controlled east, and no political settlement is in sight.
