'' ``It seems to me that what has happened there (in London) is universal meddling,'' Castro told reporters covering the Ibero-American summit being held here Sunday.
The judge is probing Pinochet's role in the death of Spaniards in Chile under his rule in the 1970s and 80s.
Castro, Latin America's only remaining authoritarian leader, said he lacked details on the case against Pinochet, but said he thought it placed the government of Chile and President Eduardo Frei in an uncomfortable position while Frei is attending the summit.
Castro compared the action with the establishment in Rome in August of an International Criminal Court, a move Cuba has expressed reservations about.
0098 Britain has defended its arrest of Gen.
Augusto Pinochet, with one lawmaker saying that Chile's claim that the former Chilean dictator has diplomatic immunity is ridiculous.
The former strongman's son vowed to hire top attorneys to defend his 82-year-old father, who ruled Chile with an iron fist for 17 years.
9.
television interview Sunday.
Pinochet has been a regular visitor to Britain, generally without publicity.
His arrest this time appeared to reflect a tougher attitude toward right-wing dictators by Prime Minister Tony Blair's Labor Party government, which replaced a Conservative Party administration 18 months ago and promised an ``ethical'' foreign policy.
However, Michael Howard, a Conservative spokesman and former Cabinet minister, said he was concerned that Pinochet was arrested as a result of pressure from Labor lawmakers and lobby groups.
'' Franco's reign ended in 1975.
No arrests or injuries were reported.
Pinochet's son, Augusto, said the family would hire ``the best legal team available in London.
According to a Chilean government report, a total of 4,299 political opponents died or disappeared during Pinochet's term.
0241 Margaret Thatcher entertained former Children dictator Gen.
Augusto Pinochet at her home two weeks before he was arrested in his bed in a London hospital, the ex-prime minister's office said Tuesday, amid growing diplomatic and domestic controversy over the move.
The current visit is Pincohet's first since Prime Minister Tony Blair's Labor Party administration was elected 18 months ago, ending 18 years of Conservative Party rule.
He arrived last month on a diplomatic passport and is also a senator-for-life in Chile, which protects him from prosecution there.
The magistrate broadened his charges Monday to include killings of Chileans as well as Spaniards, and genocide _ for which there is no diplomatic immunity.
'' ``We're not discussing his record during his period of dictatorship, that the present government does not support at all,'' added the ambassador.
A Chilean specialist in international law was traveling to London for further meetings with British officials, Artaza said.
APW19981021.
0557 The Spanish and British governments appeared Wednesday to be seeking shelter from the political storm brewing over the possible extradition of former Chilean dictator Augusto Pinochet to Spain.
``Despite everything that has been written, this is not a decision for the British government or the Spanish government,'' British Prime Minister Tony Blair said in an interview published by a Spanish newspaper on Wednesday.
In a similar vein, Spanish Foreign Ministry spokesman Joaquin Perez said Wednesday: ``The government should not have any opinion about the extradition.
'' British police, acting on an international arrest warrant from Spanish judge Baltasar Garzon on Friday, detained the ailing general in the London clinic where he was recovering from back surgery.
But it sparked protests from the Chilean government, and fears it could damage economic relations.
In 1997, seven years after Pinochet left power, Spain was the biggest single investor in Chile, followed closely by Britain.
Blair added that should Home Secretary Jack Straw would use only strictly legal criteria and act ``as if he were a judge,'' should he be required to make a decision on an extradition request from Spain.
The tone of the British Prime Minister's first public comment on the issue contrasted sharply with Sunday's emotional statement from influential Trade Secretary Peter Mandelson who said most Britons would find diplomatic immunity for Pinochet ``gut-wrenching.
But while Spanish Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar has promised his government would rubber stamp the process if it reaches his desk, he appears to be hoping he will never have to do so.
Public prosecutors from Spain's National Court have appealed the judicial investigations into human rights abuses in Chile and Argentina that underpin Garzon's arrest warrant.
``Depending on the result of the appeals it is possible that it (the extradition request) will never reach the government so perhaps the government will never have to pronounce on it,'' Aznar was quoted as saying in Wednesday's edition of the Madrid newspaper El Pais.
APW19981022.
Pinochet was arrested in London on Oct.
Espina, Movoa and Lagos were hoping to talk to officials from the Spanish Foreign Ministry and other government representatives.
``We stopped being a Spanish colony 188 years ago and we have no intention of becoming one again,'' he added.
Government spokesman Josep Pique said Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar had no plans to meet the delegation, the state-owned news agency EFE reported.
The deadline is set for November 25th _ coincidentally Pinochet's 83rd birthday.
On Thursday the head prosecutor from the National Court set in motion appeals against several rulings made by Judge Garzon related to Pinochet's detention in the London clinic where he was recovering from back surgery.
APW19981023.
Pinochet was detained in the London clinic while recovering from back surgery.
According to the report Pinochet was informed of the arrest order from two policemen, but is convinced it was a mistake and that he is protected by diplomatic immunity.
'' APW19981024.
0192 The wife of former Chilean dictator Augusto Pinochet appealed for his release, saying he is too sick to be extradited to Spain to face charges of genocide.
There have also been reports that he is suffering from depression.
APW19981025.
``Both myself and Mr.
Pinochet is under arrest in a London hospital where he'd gone for back surgery.
He was detained on a warrant from a Spanish magistrate seeking to extradite him on charges of genocide, terrorism and torture during his 1973-90 rule.
'' APW19981028.
0444 The Swiss government has ordered no investigation of possible bank accounts belonging to former Chilean dictator Augusto Pinochet, a spokesman said Wednesday.
Pinochet has been held at a London clinic since his arrest earlier this month.
Spanish magistrate Baltasar Garzon is seeking his extradition on charges of genocide, torture and terrorism during his 17-year rule which ended 1990.
0292 As his lawyers in London tried to quash a Spanish arrest warrant for Gen.
Augusto Pinochet, the former Chilean dictator, efforts began in Geneva and Paris to have him extradited.
His lawyer, Clive Nicholls, said that if a bid to extradite the general succeeded, by the same token Queen Elizabeth II could be extradited to Argentina to face trial for the death of Argentine soldiers in the Falklands war in 1982.
The prosecutor argued that the the right-wing general was responsible for killing at least 4,000 people and had set out ``to destroy a national group _ Chilean nationals who did not share his ideological values.
But efforts to prevent that gathered strength elsewhere in Europe.
Bertossa said he had opened a judicial investigation in response to a complaint by the widow of the victim, Alexei Jaccard, who was 25 when he was tortured in Chile and subsequently disappeared.
At the same time in Paris Monday, the families of three French citizens, of whom two disappeared and one was killed in Chile during the 1973-90 dictatorship, filed suit in a French court.
In addition, a human rights group in Paris said Monday that it had filed a suit with a Paris court on behalf of Anne Marie Pesle, whose father, Etienne Pesle, disappeared in Chile in 1973.
Court officials in Madrid said Garzon wanted any accounts blocked with a view to their possible use later as compensation to relatives of victims.
Supporters and opponents of the dictator have traveled to the London clinic where he is being held.
On occasion there have been shouting matches between the two sides.
